# Summary

## Description

This role configures nginx to use certificates issued by [Let's
Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) instead of certificates signed by your own
authority as installed by Caislean's role `tls`. The advantage is that Let's
Encrypt certificates are trusted by most browsers so visitors to your website
won't see an untrusted certificate warning.

Use of this role implies acceptance of the Let's Encrypt Subscriber Agreement.
This is available here: <https://letsencrypt.org/repository/>

The Let's Encrypt role will only work on remote machines running Debian 8
(Jessie). This is because the Let's Encrypt client is not available on Debian 7
(Wheezy) but is present in Jessie's backports repository. The role will
explicitly fail if you try running it on anything else than Jessie.

You can exclude some domains from using Let's Encrypt, either because you do not
want TLS at all or because you prefer using the `tls` role for those. See
configuration parameters below.

## Prerequired roles

- `base-packages`
- `base-config`
- `nginx`

# Manual steps

This role will fail unless every domain listed in `websites` for which you
did not disable Let's Encrypt resolves to the IP address of your server. This is
because Let's Encrypt verifies that you control the domains for which you are
requesting certificates by placing files in each virtual host's webroot and then
checking that it can access those files from the domains in question.

Make sure your DNS records are properly configured for each domain prior to
running this role: if you want a Let's Encrypt certificate for
`www.somedomain.tld`, this exact domain must have an `A` and/or `AAAA` record
pointing to your server.

# Configuration parameters (ansible variables)

## Mandatory parameters

### `websites`

A list of domain names for which Caislean should generate certificates. This is
the same list used by the `nginx` role when creating virtual hosts to serve. See
that role's documentation for more options of this configuration parameter.

Default:

    websites:
      - name: "{{ server_name }}.{{ domain_name }}"

Add or change lines to create new nginx virtual hosts and generate Let's Encrypt
certificates for them. You can disable Let's Encrypt by setting explicitly the
`letsencrypt` parameter to `False` for a given domain.

The role will generate one distinct certificate per domain, except if a domain
has aliases, in which case the domain and all its aliases will be included in
the certificate.

Example:

    websites:
      - name: "{{server_name}}.{{domain_name}}"
      - name: www.otherdomain.com
        aliases:
          - otherdomain.com
          - otherdomain.org
          - www.otherdomain.org
      - name: cleartext.domain.com
        letsencrypt: False

## Optional parameters

### `tls_additional_domains`

Domains listed under this parameter will be excluded from Let's Encrypt
certificate requests. This is because we consider that their TLS is already
handled by the `tls` role. See documentation of that role.
