# Summary

## Description

This role installs the Suricata intrusion detection system (IDS), which aims at
monitoring all network traffic passing through the system and raising alerts in
log files whenever the content of traffic is deemed suspicious, for instance
because it can be generated by malicious software.

Detection of malicious traffic is permitted thanks to rule files which describe
various types of suspicious traffic. The role also installs Oinkmaster, whose
job is to keep these rule files up-to-date by periodically downloading their
last version from Emerging Threats' website.

Note: this role is currently broken. It may theoretically work but the system's
resources will quickly be saturated by the live analysis of packets.

## Prerequired roles

- `common`

# Manual steps

# Configuration parameters (ansible variables)

## Mandatory parameters

### `admin_email`

Email address of the administrator, where Cron messages and various security
alerts will be sent to.

### `capture_traffic`

Set to `yes` or `no`: whether or not to capture all the traffic into a PCAP
file, as permitted by the `pcap-log` output supported by Suricata.

### `in_out_monitor_only`

Monitor only trafic that is emitted by or directed to the machine.

### `monitored_interfaces`

A list of network interfaces to monitor.

### `server_addresses`

List of valid IP addresses that identify the server (used to determine whether
some trafic is emitted by or directed to the server).

## Optional parameters

None.
